[Music]
building strong neck muscles may not be
on your first priorities list when
working out but in fact you shouldn't
neglect them they not only add to your
overall image but also good for your
health
in 2008 scientists from national
research centre for the working
environment in Copenhagen proof that
strengthening your neck relieves pain in
this area so why not to start benefiting
yourself right now and do some neck
building exercises number one dumbbell
shrug this is an exercise that targets
both your shoulders and your neck so
there's a double benefit here it's a
basic set that should be incorporated in
any neck workout so why don't we start
with that take a dumbbell into either
hand and stand straight with your arms
along your body and your legs hip width
apart make sure that dumbbells aren't
too heavy
you shouldn't over strain yourself or
you might get a stiff neck afterwards
with palms facing your torso exhale and
lift your shoulders all the way up hold
this position for a second and say I
don't know just kidding don't waste your
breath lower your shoulders and here you
go one rep done do from eight to twelve
reps rest for 30 seconds and repeat
twice more number two face down
resistance now this one targets your
neck specifically but it should be
performed with caution if you do it
wrong it can lead to serious injury lie
on a flat bench face down so that your
face neck and shoulders are hanging over
the edge take a lightweight plate or a
bottle of water in your hands and hold
it behind your head now keeping the
weight secure inhale
and lower your head in a nod of approval
then exhale and raise your head back to
the starting position and hold it for a
second do three sets of eight to twelve
reps but make sure you don't overstrain
yourself if you feel too much tension at
some point stop immediately
number three single arm dumbbell row if
you want to ask what arm rows have to do
with the neck I don't blame you it can
be perplexing in short almost any
exercise if it's not extremely isolating
like bicep curls for example targets
several muscles at once dumbbell rows
are not an exception they target your
triceps shoulders and back of the neck
get yourself a nice and cozy flat bench
and prop your right knee on it plant
your left foot firmly on the floor and
take a dumbbell in your left hand bend
forward keeping your back as straight as
possible not to over strain your lower
back and place your right hand onto the
bench for support but your left hand
with the dumbbell hang to the floor now
lift back hand until your upper arm is
parallel to the floor hold it there for
a second and then lower it back do eight
to twelve reps then change sides and
repeat it's best to do at least three
sets switching sides
number four lateral raise again a
complex exercise that targets not only
your neck and traps but your shoulders
and upper arms as well stand straight
with your feet shoulder-width apart take
a dumbbell in each hand and let your
arms hang along your body palms facing
your torso slightly bend your knees for
Less lower back strain and bend your
elbows to for better leverage now raise
your arms to the sides as if you're
getting ready to fly away and make sure
your upper arms are parallel to the
floor at the top stay like this for a
second inhale and slowly lower your arms
back
that's one rep and you'll need three
sets of eight to twelve reps just like
with everything else so far easy number
five front dumbbell raise you've done it
to the sides now it's time to do the
same in front of you
front dumbbell rates targets the front
of your shoulders your traps and sides
of the neck as well as the upper chest
muscles take the dumbbells and stand
straight with your weighted hands on the
front of your thighs palms facing down
without turning your palm lift your
right hand to the front until your arm
is a little above parallel to the floor
the elbows slightly bent make sure you
don't swing your torso from side to side
or back to front this is incorrect form
and could reduce the effectiveness of
the exercise when your hand is in top
position hold it there for a second and
then lower it back to your thigh repeat
with your left hand and go on until
you've done eight to twelve reps rest
for ten seconds and do two more sets
like the first one
number six face up resistance yeah
you've done it's face down counterpart
already and now you're going to do it on
the other side it's almost like frying a
steak you know if it's only done on one
side it won't ever be ready in the case
of your neck with face up resistance
you'll be targeting your traps deltoid
muscles and the back of the neck lie on
a flat bench in the same way you did for
the face down resistance your head neck
and shoulders should hang in the air
over the edge of the bench take a
lightweight plate and hold it on top of
your forehead inhale and slowly lower
your head back all the while holding the
weight secured on your forehead exhale
and raise your head back to the starting
position hold it for a second and repeat
again three sets of eight to twelve reps
should be good enough for you
number seven reverse fly
this one will be our finisher for
today's neck workout and not least
because it doesn't directly affect the
net before you raise that eyebrow
eyebrows
it should be a separate exercise too
I'll explain your neck especially the
back of it is strongly connected with
your trapezius muscles as well as other
muscles in the back such as the rhomboid
and deltoids so to make the workout
really worth the effort you should
strengthen your upper back to reverse
fly is just about that it targets the
rhomboid and the deltoids making your
neck and shoulders stronger and more
flexible sit on a bench with your knees
bent and next to each other
pull the dumbbell in each hand lean
forward and let your arms hang down at
the sides of your calves slightly bend
your elbows and turn your palms so that
they face your calves make sure your
back is straight and doesn't bend at the
waist you can experience
is discomfort in the lower back if you
do this exercise wrong now exhale and
slowly raise your arms to the sides
until they're parallel to the floor hold
the top position for a second inhale and
then slowly exhale
[Music]
deval don't forget to warm up your neck
it's one of those regions of your body
that are more vulnerable when it comes
to strain damage along with your lower
back and joints make sure you spend some
good time on warming up activities
otherwise you might end up with a stiff
and painful neck the next day or even
right after the workout next neck
workout shouldn't be the only workout of
the day it's normally combined with
something else and trainers argue about
which is best to combine it with your
arms and shoulders day or give it a go
on a chest and back day in fact there's
no Universal answer so pick the days you
feel the most comfortable with and
incorporate the neck training into them
a little tip though if you train your
shoulders you can squeeze the traps for
an added bonus of targeting your neck
too thirdly it's as important to cool
down after a neck workout as it is to
warm it up cooling down is often
neglected at the gym but professional
trainers advise against this practice
after an intense workout your muscles
are pumped up and they can become stiff
if you don't stretch them a little bit
here and there
stretching gives the tired muscles that
much needed bit of flexibility and
you'll feel better the next day and
finally don't overdo it like I said
before your neck is more vulnerable than
the rest of your muscles so keep the
weights lighter than you would for other
exercises also three times a week is
more than enough you can even reduce the
number of days to two if you feel it's
getting too much waking up one day
without being able to turn your head it
is not a sensation you'd like to
experience trust me so keep your neck
safe and don't break it what other cool
neck and traps exercises can you need
let me know down in the comments if you
learned something new today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend but hey don't go anywhere
just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life